#summary Interoperability Now! Home Page

=Interoperability Now!=
Interoperability Now! is a group working to improve the interoperability of tools and technology within the localization industry.

==What are we producing?==
We have two primary areas of focus:
  * *TIPP* - The TMS Interoperability Protocol Package (TIPP) is an information container that allows the seamless exchange of information between different independent Translation Management Systems (TMS).
  * *XLIFF:doc* - A reference guide for representing documents in XLIFF files. The primary goal of XLIFF:doc is to provide a mechanism to allow lossless exchange of XLIFF data between tools in the localization workflow.

Our [http://code.google.com/p/interoperability-now/downloads/list Downloads] section includes the most recent versions of the specifications and schema files. We have also made source code available for tool vendors interested in supporting the specifications to [http://code.google.com/p/interoperability-now/wiki/jtip programmatically manipulate TIP packages].

==Who’s involved?==
  * [http://bioloom.de/ BIOLOOM Group]: Prof. Dr. Jörg Schütz
 * [http://kilgray.com/ Kilgray]: Peter Reynolds(@peterrey on Twitter), Gabor Ugray, Gergely Vandor
 * [http://www.medtronic.com/ Medtronic]: Micah Bly (@MicahBly on Twitter)
 * [http://ontram.com/ ONTRAM]: Sven Andrä (@sca2g on Twitter), Timo Tretter
 * [http://www.spartanconsultinginc.com/ Spartan Software]: Chase Tingley (@ctatwork on Twitter), Andrew Pimlott
 * [http://www.welocalize.com/ Welocalize]: Russell Taga
 * [http://www.xtm-intl.com/ XTM]: Andrzej Zydron

==Are we working with other interoperability initiatives?==
Yes! We are working with the [http://linport.org/ Language Interoperability Portfolio Project (LINPORT)] to ensure that both initiatives produce a single container package format.

==Recent accomplishments==
Please see our Meeting Notes and [http://code.google.com/p/interoperability-now/updates/list Updates] sections for on-going updates. Please also see our [http://code.google.com/p/interoperability-now/wiki/conferences Conferences] page for details on presentations that we’ve given at different industry conferences.