#summary Interoperability Now! Meeting Notes Feb 3, 2012

*Attendees:* Sven (ONTRAM), Gergely (Kilgray), Micah (Medtronic), Chase (Spartan), Andrzej (XTM), Joerg (Bioloom)

==Action items==
  * XLIFF 2.0 deep dive (Gergely)
  * Implementation dashboard - figure out the best way to set it up on googlecode or elsewher (Sven, Micah)

==Discussion of Wednesday's info session with XLIFF TC==
  * Some concerns about XLIFF 2.0
    * Timeline / project management
    * Lack of clearly-defined interoperability goals
    * Complexity of inline elements
  * How to approach XLIFF 2.0 vs xliff:doc?
    * Expectation from the TC that someone from IN! will join and push xliff:doc features into 2.0.  
    * There was some hope of more active guidance from the TC and hopes of them adopting some features from xliff:doc on their own.
      * We are constrained by lack of time / inability to commit to the TC
      * Micah is willing to work offline with somebody from the TC but it is difficult for him to join OASIS because of IP issues
  * What should be the next step?
    * Gergely to do a deep dive on 2.0 features and see what he can learn

==LocWorld and related topics==
  * We should find out about the preso in the next week or two
  * Micah proposes we should have something on the updates page - implementer's notes or some sort of blog to stir up interest.
  * Sven proposes an implementation dashboard, which is well-received.

==Agenda for Implementers' call, Feb 10==
  * Gergely looking for topics.
  * Sven proposes Chase and Timo revive the TM-Europe demo to show to people who've joined since then, and to talk through their implementations.
    * Chase on vacation that week, can't do the demo then.
  * Sven recommends that the implementers talk through expected integration points.